---
layout:     post
title:      One Small Step
summary:    A start toward a tech tree
categories: plans
thumbnail: rocket
tags:
 - hardware
 - software
 - wetware
---

#What do we do first?
##Make a tech tree.
 
You can't do calculus without algebra. You can't do astrogation without calculus. You can't program robots without computers. You can't operate a self-contained ecosystem without, well, sunlight and soil. We have no idea what we're doing out there and we're only just realizing how much the planet is supporting us already. Time to crack a book and get to researching.

There are a few basic things to learn here. Assuming the basic skills of squatters (cooking, building, gardening, trading, and making more people) we have some specific routes to head to get the status of high-flying space monkeys. Some are abstract science, some are crafts or skills. A good start: Calculus is necessary for physics and system biology. Ecology and biology are the basis of habitat design. Python is a programming language that's easy to think in and useful for science. Communication and organization with other people are well known to business culture and activist circles. Science fiction is always inspiring, sometimes accurate, and useful for big visions. Statistics will help you but economics is useless. Cognitive psychology helps protect you from the failure modes of the human brain.

Understand your infrastructure. Cities are already huge life-support systems. Learn what's in your walls and how to fix it. 

Once we've got a collective knowledge base, we're in business. Start solving problems that are between you and understanding of:
Electrics, engines, chemical rockets, ballistics, gravity, nanolayering, planetary ecology, climate science, genetics, bioinformatics, robotics, cybernetics and so-called "AI". These are all things that competent people are doing, today, for a living. Meet those people. Draw them into the Space Program through the subtle brainwashing mantra, "Hey, you wanna go to space?"

Aim straight through the real and into the science-fictional. Genetic computation. Railgun transports. Memetic weaponry. Actual AI. Galactic panspermia. Egalitarian society. 

How do we achieve our ends, if we have infinite time and the resources of the Earth and Sun there for the taking? 

We lean on probability. 

We take advantage of the knowledge discovered before us, the real empirical life-altering who-gets-to-eat stuff, and we extend into the future in the direction of our desired change. 

We tack into the winds of unpredictability by accepting the simple concept that there's more space out there than there is here. More opportunities in front of us, to shake the world and make the unlikely probably, than there are behind us. 

We can't change the past, by argument or by magic or by decree. We will, and must, change the future.

